>> Woodruff: AS THE REBEL
STRONGHOLD IN EASTERN UKRAINE
DEVOLVES INTO A BATTLEGROUND,
THE U.S. AND EUROPE SLAM RUSSIA
WITH MORE SANCTIONS FOR ITS
STOKING OF THE UNREST.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY, TWO
SENATORS WHO ARE RISING STARS IN
THEIR PARTIES-- DEMOCRAT CORY
BOOKER AND REPUBLICAN RAND PAUL-
- TEAM UP TO TACKLE PRISON
SENTENCING REFORM.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, MAKING
LEARNING MORE FUN BY EXTENDING
THE SCHOOL DAY.
>> YOU KNOW, YOU WALK INTO THE
CLASSROOM AND THE KIDS ARE
EXCITED ABOUT WHAT THEY'RE DOING
AND IT'S 4:00 ON A FRIDAY AND
THEY'RE ALL RAISING THEIR HANDS,
THAT, TO ME, IS SUCCESS.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING B.
>> Ifill: ISRAEL WIDENED THE
SCOPE OF ITS MILITARY BARRAGE
AGAINST HAMAS IN GAZA, AS IT
PROMISED IT WOULD.
HAMAS HAS SAID IT WON'T STOP
FIRING ROCKETS INTO ISRAEL UNTIL
IT GETS AN INTERNATIONAL
GUARANTEE THE BORDER BLOCKADE
WILL END.
TODAY, HEAVY STRIKES CAME ON THE
GROUND AND FROM THE AIR AS THE
PALESTINIAN DEATH TOLL REACHED
1,120.
ON THE ISRAELI SIDE, 53 SOLDIERS
AND THREE CIVILIANS HAVE BEEN
KILLED.
FLAMES AND SMOKE BILLOWED OUT OF
GAZA'S ONLY POWER PLANT THIS
MORNING.
THE PLANT'S DIRECTOR SAID THE
DAMAGE WOULD HAVE A SEVERE
IMPACT ON THE 1.7 MILLION
PALESTINIANS LIVING IN THE
NARROW COASTAL TERRITORY.
>> ( translated ): I WOULD LIKE
TO SAY TO THE WORLD THAT THIS
WAS A HUMANITARIAN PLANT THAT
SERVED THE PEOPLE, THEREFORE ITS
EXISTENCE HELPED PEOPLE, LIFE,
HOSPITALS AND THE NORMAL, SIMPLE
LIFE OF THE PEOPLE OF GAZA.
>> Ifill: THE POWER PLANT WAS
JUST ONE IN A STRING OF TARGETS
ISRAEL HIT IN THE 22nd DAY OF
FIGHTING WITH HAMAS.
THE BOMBARDMENT STARTED
OVERNIGHT, AS HUGE EXPLOSIONS
FILLED THE NIGHT SKY OVER GAZA.
AMONG THE OTHER SITES HIT: THE
UNOCCUPIED HOME OF GAZA'S HAMAS
LEADER AND THE HAMAS-RUN AL-AQSA
SATELLITE T.V. STATION.
ISRAELI MEDIA SAID THE ARMY HAD
ALSO DESTROYED 20 OF THE MORE
THAN 30 TUNNELS USED BY HAMA
SNEAK WEAPONS INTO THE COUNTRY.
ISRAELI MILITARY SPOKESMAN PETER
LERNER:
>> THIS IS A GRADUAL INCREASE IN
THE PRESSURE ON THIS
ORGANIZATION.
IT HAS BEEN OVER THE LAST THREE
WEEKS TAKING A NEW STEP EVERY
DAY AND INDEED WE ARE STRIKING
AND WE ARE DETERMINED TO STRIKE
THIS ORGANIZATION AND RELIEVE US
FROM THIS THREAT.
>> Ifill: THE WERE ALSO
MULTIPLE REPORTS OF CEASEFIRE
AGREEMENTS TODAY; ALL EVENTUALLY
SQUASHED.
AT ONE POINT, THE PALESTINIAN
LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
ANNOUNCED IT HAD OFFERED A
TEMPORARY TRUCE, AND SAID IT WAS
SPEAKING FOR HAMAS.
>> ( translated ): FOLLOWING
CONSULTATIONS WITH OUR BROTHERS
IN HAMAS AND ISLAMIC JIHAD, THE
PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY DECLARES
ITS READINESS TO AN IMMEDIATE
CEASEFIRE AND A HUMANITARIAN
CEASEFIRE FOR 24 HOURS.
>> Ifill: HAMAS LATER DENIED
THAT.
THEN, ISRA C
TELEVISION REPORTED THE TWO
SIDES AGREED IN PRINCIPLE TO AN
EGYPT-BROKERED CEASEFIRE, ONLY
TO RETRACT IT MOMENTS LATER.
IRAN GOT INVOLVED TOO-- THE
SUPREME LEADER AYATOLLAH ALI
KHAMENEI PUT OUT A CALL TO
MUSLIMS AROUND THE WORLD TO HELP
PALESTINIAN FIGHTERS.
>> ( translated ): WE CALL ON
THE WORLD, AND ESPECIALLY THE
ISLAMIC WORLD, TO SUPPORT AND
NATION.
>> Ifill: MEANWHILE, BOTH
PALESTINIANS AND ISRAELIS BURIED
THEIR DEAD, AS THE CASUALTY
COUNT CONTINUED TO GROW.
>> Woodruff: IN OTHER NEWS,
THERE WAS WORD TODAY POLICE IN
CHINA SHOT DEAD DOZENS OF GANG
MEMBERS WHO USED KNIVES TO STAGE
ATTACKS ON TWO AREAS.
THE ATTACKS HAPPENED YESTERDAY
IN THE WESTERN REGION OF
XINJIANG AND HIT TWO NEIGHBORING
TOWNS.
THE GANGS WENT AFTER CIVILIANS
AND SET FIRE TO CARS.
THE DEAD AND INJURED INCLUDED
ETHNIC UIGHURS AND ALSO MEMBERS
OF CHINA'S MAJORITY HAN
POPULATION.
>> Ifill: ALSO IN CHINA, THE
RULING COMMUNIST PARTY BEGAN
INVESTIGATING THE COUNTRY'S
FORMER SECURITY CHIEF OVER
ALLEGATIONS OF CORRUPTION.
ZHOU YONGKANG-- WHO RETIRED IN
2012-- WAS A POWERFUL LEADER IN
THE PARTY'S INNER CIRCLE.
ITS MEMBERS HAVE LONG BEEN
CONSIDERED OFF-LIMITS FOR
PROSECUTION TO MAINTAIN PARTY
UNITY.
IT'S THE LATEST MOVE IN
PRESIDENT XI JINPING'S
WIDESPREAD CRACKDOWN ON
CORRUPTION WITHIN THE COMMUNIST
PARTY.
>> Woodruff: MISSISSIPPI'S ONLY
ABORTION CLINIC WILL NOT BE
CLOSING, A FEDERAL APPEALS COURT
RULED TODAY.
A STATE LAW PASSED IN 2012
REQUIRED DOCTORS AT THE CLINIC
TO HAVE THE PRIVILEGE TO ADMIT
PATIENTS TO LOCAL HOSPITALS, BUT
THE HOSPITALS WOULDN'T GIVE THEM
THOSE PRIVILEGES.
THE COURT RULED THAT FORCING
WOMEN TO GO OUT OF STATE PLACED
AN UNDUE BURDEN ON A WOMAN'S
RIGHT TO SEEK AN ABORTION.
>> Ifill: THE ACTING U.S.
SURGEON GENERAL HAD A WARNING
FOR SUN WORSHIPPERS TODAY: STOP
SUNBATHING AND STOP USING INDOOR
TANNING BEDS.
A REPORT RELEASED TODAY CITES A
200% JUMP IN DEADLY MELANOMA
CASES SINCE 1973.
MORE THAN FIVE MILLION PEOPLE IN
THE U.S. ARE
CANCER EACH YEAR, AND $8 BILLION
IS SPENT TREATING THE MOSTLY
PREVENTABLE DISEASE.
>> Woodruff: A SERIES OF PUBLIC
DERWAY TODAY ON
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S PROPOSED RULES
TO CUT POLLUTION FROM POWER
PLANTS.
HE'S SEEKING TO SLASH CARBON
DIOXIDE EMISSIONS 30% BY THE
YEAR 2030.
THIS WEEK, THE ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY IS HEARING
FROM SUPPORTERS AND OPPONENTS IN
FOUR CITIES-- ATLANTA, DENVER,
PITTSBURGH AND WASHINGTON--
BEFORE IT UNVEILS ITS FINAL
PROPOSAL NEXT YEAR.
>> LET'S GET THE FACTS STRAIGHT.
CARBON POLLUTION IS WAGING A
DIRECT ASSAULT ON RURAL AMERICA.
IT IS A DIRECT ASSAULT ON JOBS
IN AMERICA.
AND IF WE SIT BACK AND DO
NOTHING, THERE WILL BE SEVERE
ECONOMIC DISRUPTION.
>> E.P.A'S PROPOSAL IS AN
UNACCEPTABLE EXAMPLE OF
EXECUTIVE OVERREACH.
DECISIONS HOW AND WHETHER TO
CREATE LAWS OF THIS BREADTH
SHOULD BE MADE BY OUR
REPRESENTATIVE BRANCHES OF
GOVERNMENT, NOT BY UNELECTED
FEDERAL AGENCY OFFICIALS.
>> Woodruff: ALSO TODAY, THE
PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC
ADVISERS ISSUED A NEW REPORT
THAT WARNS DELAYING CLIMATE
ACTION COULD COST THE ECONOMY
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS.
>> Ifill: THE FORMER GOVERNOR OF
MINNESOTA, JESSE VENTURA, WAS
AWARDED NEARLY $2 MILLION IN
DAMAGES TODAY IN A DEFAMATION
LAWSUIT.
A FEDERAL JURY AGREED AUTHOR AND
EX-NAVY SEAL CHRIS KYLE DIDN'T
TELL THE TRUTH IN HIS BOOK
CLAIMING HE AND VENTURA GOT INTO
A BAR FIGHT IN 2006.
VENTURA WAS ALSO A FORMER NAVY
SEAL AND SAID THE FIGHT NEVER
HAPPENED.
>> Woodruff: MORE THAN 35% OF
AMERICANS HAVE DEBTS AND UNPAID
BILLS THAT HAVE BEEN REPORTED TO
DEBT COLLECTION AGENCIES.
THE URBAN INSTITUTE, A
WASHINGTON BASED POLICY RESEARCH
CENTER STUDIED THE CREDIT FILES
OF SEVEN MILLION AMERICANS TO
COME UP WITH THAT FIGURE.
IT FOUND THE AVERAGE AMOUNT
REPORTED TO COLLECTION AGENCIES
WAS MORE THAN $5,000.
THE HIGHEST CONCENTRATION OF
PEOPLE DELINQUENT IN THEIR
PAYMENTS LIVE IN SOUTHERN AND
WESTERN STATES.
>> Ifill: STOCKS ON WALL STREET
FELL MODESTLY TODAY, WITH A NEW
BATCH OF ECONOMIC GROWTH REPORTS
EXPECTED TOMORROW.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 70 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,912.
THE NASDAQ FELL TWO POINTS TO
CLOSE ABOVE 4,442.
THE S&P 500 DROPPED NEARLY NINE
POINTS TO CLOSE JUST UNDER
1,970.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR: THE U.S. AND EUROPE
RAMP UP PRESSURE ON RUSSIA,
COLLEGE SPORTS CHANGES HOW IT
HANDLES CONCUSSIONS, WHY LONGER
SCHOOL DAYS CAN BE MORE FUN FOR
STUDENTS, HAS GOVERNMENT
SURVEILLANCE SILENCED REPORTERS'
SOURCES?
AND, SENATORS CORY BOOKER AND
RAND PAUL TEAM UP TO REDUCE
PRISON SENTENCES.
>> Woodruff: AS THE VIOLENCE
ESCALATES IN UKRAINE AND
INTERNATIONAL FRUSTRATIONS MOUNT
OVER SEPERATISTS' CONTROL OF THE
MALAYSIA AIRLINE CRASH SITE,
THE U.S. AND EUROPE STEPPED UP
THEIR RESPONSE TO RUSSIA TODAY.
IN A BID TO FORCE MOSCOW TO PULL
BACK ITS SUPPORT OF THE REBELS.
HOURS AFTER THE EUROPEAN UNION
ANNOUNCED ITS GREATLY EXPANDED
SECTOR-WIDE SANCTIONS, THE
PRESIDENT DEEPENED U.S.
PENALTIES AGAINST RUSSIA AND ITS
ECONOMY.
>> IF RUSSIA CONTINUES ON ITS
CURRENT PATH, THE COST ON RUSSIA
WILL CONTINUE TO GROW.
AND TODAY IS A REMINDER THAT THE
UNITED STATES MEANS WHAT IT
SAYS.
RUSSIA'S ACTIONS IN UKRAINE AND
THE SANCTIONS THAT WE'VE ALREADY
IMPOSED HAVE MADE A WEAK RUSSIAN
ECONOMY EVEN WEAKER.
FOREIGN INVESTORS ALREADY ARE
INCREASINGLY STAYING AWAY.
EVEN BEFORE OUR ACTIONS TODAY,
NEARLY $100 BILLION IN CAPITAL
WAS EXPECTED TO FLEE RUSSIA.
RUSSIA'S ENERGY, FINANCIAL AND
DEFENSE SECTORS ARE FEELING THE
PAIN.
PROJECTIONS FOR RUSSIAN ECONOMIC
GROWTH ARE DOWN TO NEAR ZERO.
THE MAJOR SANCTIONS WE'RE
ANNOUNCING TODAY WILL CONTINUE
TO RATCHET UP.
THE PRESSURE ON RUSSIA,
INCLUDING THE CRONIES AND
COMPANIES THAT ARE SUPPORTING
RUSSIA'S ILLEGAL ACTIONS IN
UKRAINE.
>> Woodruff: THE E.U. MIRRORED
U.S. SANCTIONS AGAINST THE
BANKING, DEFENSE AND ENERGY
SECTORS IN RUSSIA.
YESTERDAY RUSSIA'S FOREIGN
MINISTER SERGEY LAVROV WAS
DEFIANT IN ADVANCE OF THE E.U.
MOVE:
>> ( translated ): I CAN
REASSURE YOU, WE WILL OVERCOME
THE DIFFICULTIES THAT WILL ARISE
IN CERTAIN PARTS OF OUR ECONOMY.
MAYBE, WE WILL BECOME MORE SELF-
RELIANT AND MORE SELF-CONFIDENT.
>> Woodruff: BUT TODAY, DUTCH
FOREIGN MINISTER FRANS TIMMERMAN
SAID LAVROV'S TOUGH TALK WOULD
HURT MOSCOW.
>> ( translated ): THE
CONSEQUENCE IS THAT RUSSIA
CHOOSES TO ISOLATE ITSELF.
AND THAT'S NOT POSITIVE FOR
RUSSIA.
MY COLLEAGUE LAVROV CAN SAY TO
THE MEDIA: "IN THAT WAY WE WILL
BE MORE INDEPENDENT," BUT THAT
IS AN INDEPENDENCE THAT WILL
LEAD TO MORE POVERTY FOR THE
RUSSIANS.
>> Woodruff: THE DUTCH ARE ALSO
REELING FROM THE CRASH NEARLY
TWO WEEKS AGO OF THE MALAYSIAN
AIRLINER FLIGHT 17 THAT
ORIGINATED IN AMSTERDAM.
MORE THAN 100 DUTCH CITIZENS
OUT OF ALMOST 300 TOTAL DIED
WHEN A SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILE--
ALLEGEDLY FIRED BY PRO-RUSSIAN
SEPARATISTS-- BROUGHT DOWN THE
AIRCRAFT IN EASTERN UKRAINE.
INVESTIGATORS FROM THE
ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY AND
COOPERATION IN EUROPE-- OR
O.S.C.E-- SAID THEY WERE STILL
WORKING ON GETTING TO THE CRASH
SITE AFTER BEING FORCED TO TURN
BACK YESTERDAY BY HEAVY FIGHTING
IN THE AREA.
THE CRASH SITE IS NORTH OF
DONESTK.
THE REBEL STRONGHOLD AND
REGIONAL CAPITAL OF UKRAINE'S
EAST IS NOW BECOMING A
BATTLEGROUND.
ITS LEAFY BOULEVARDS NOW EMPTY
EXCEPT FOR MEN WITH GUNS.
THE SHROUDED, BADLY-MANGLED BODY
OF A MAN WAS LOADED ON TO A
STRETCHER OUTSIDE A CENTER-CITY
APARTMENT BLOCK AS SHELLING HIT
DONETSK.
HE WAS THE HUSBAND OF LUBOV
SKORIKH; THEY HAD FLED THE
RAVAGED CITY OF SLAVYANSK FOR
DONETSK.
>> ( translated ): I LOOKED AT
HIM, AND AT FIRST COULDN'T
UNDERSTAND WHO HE WAS, BUT THEN
I SAW THE SHOES.
THEY WERE HIS SHOES.
DO YOU UNDERSTAND?
HIS SHOES!
MY GOD I HAVE LIVED WITH HIM FOR
45 YEARS.
>> Woodruff: A NATIONAL SECURITY
SPOKESMAN IN KYIV SAID THE
BATTLE FOR DONETSK WAS AT HAND.
>> ( translated ): UKRAINIAN
SERVICEMEN WILL RECAPTURE THE
CITY OF DONETSK AND WILL SAVE
INFRASTRUCTURE.
BUT THE PRIMARY GOAL IS TO SAVE
THE LIVES OF PEOPLE WHO REMAIN
THERE-- OF CIVILIANS.
>> Woodruff: FIGHTING NEARBY
OVER THE PAST DAY HAS KILLED
DOZENS OF CIVILIANS, PRO-RUSSIAN
SEPARATISTS AND UKRAINIAN
TROOPS.
YESTERDAY, THE REBELS'
COMMANDER, IGOR STRELKOV-- THE
WHO WAS A FORMER RUSSIAN
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE OFFICER--
GAVE HIS ACCOUNT OF THE PITCHED
FIGHTING.
>> ( translated ): I WILL NOT
ESTIMATE THE OUTCOME BECAUSE NOT
ALL OPERATIONS ARE CLEAR.
I CAN SAY ONLY THIS: THE ENEMY
IS THROWING EVERYTHING THEY HAVE
INTO BATTLE.
>> Woodruff: RUSSIAN SUPPORT FOR
STELKOV AND OTHER SEPARATISTS IS
ONE OF A RAFT OF SERIOUS ISSUES
NOW PLAGUING U.S.-RUSSIA
RELATIONS.
AND TODAY, A NEW AND SERIOUS
GRIEVANCE EMERGED.
THE U.S. NOW CONTENDS RUSSIA HAS
ROUTINELY VIOLATED A REAGAN-ERA
WEAPONS TREATY SIGNED WITH THE
SOVIET UNION GOVERNING
"INTERMEDIATE NUCLEAR FORCES."
THE 1987 PACT GOVERNED, IN PART,
THE DEPLOYMENT AND FLIGHT-
TESTING OF "GROUND-LAUNCHED
CRUISE MISSILES," WHICH THE
RUSSIANS ARE ALLEGED TO HAVE
VIOLATED.
TO HELP MAKE SENSE OF TODAY'S
ACTIONS AGAINST RUSSIA, OUR
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER.
SO, MARGARET, TELL US MORE ABOUT
WHAT THESE SANCTIONS DO.
>> BROADLY, JUDY, WHAT THEY TRY
TO DO IS HOBBLE THE RUSSIAN'S
ACCESS TO BOTH CAPITAL AND
TECHNOLOGY IN THESE THREE KEY
AREAS, ARMS, ENERGY AND FINANCE.
SO, FOR INSTANCE, LET'S JUST
TAKE FINANCE.
BY NOW, FIVE OF THE SIX
STATE-OWNED RUSSIAN BANKS
BASICALLY WILL HAVE NO ACCESS TO
MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM CAPITAL OR
DEBT, AND SINCE THEY GET ALMOST
100% OF IT FROM U.S. AND WESTERN
SOURCES, AS ONE U.S. OFFICIAL
SAID TODAY, THEY'RE ESSENTIALLY
GOING TO HAVE TO SHUT DOWN.
PRIVATE BANKS AREN'T BEING
TOUCHED.
IF YOU TAKE THE ARMS AREA,
AGAIN, THEY'RE GOING TO USE
EXPORT LICENSE RESTRICTIONS TO
PREVENT FUTURE SALES OF ARMS TO
RUSSIA.
THEN THE ENERGY SECTOR, THEY'RE
GOING TO USE EXPORT LICENSE
RESTRICTIONS TO PREVENT RUSSIANN
COMPANIES FROM GIVING THE
RUSSIANS ACCESS TO FUTURE
TECHNOLOGIES PARTICULARLY IN
DEEP WATER AND SHALE GAS.
THE KEY THING IS NOTHING WILL
INTERFERE WITH CURRENT PROJECTS,
WHETHER B.P., EXXONMOBIL, THE
FRIEND -- WHAT THEY'RE TRYING TO
DO IS NOT HIT WESTERN BUSINESSES
TOO HARD BUT MAKE IT CLEAR TO
THE RUSSIANS FUTURE INVESTMENTS
WILL BE REALLY CRIPPLED.
>> Woodruff: TELL ME WHY
EUROPEANS HAVE BEEN RELUCTANT TO
IMPOSE CRITICAL SANCTIONS ON
CRITICAL SECTORS.
WHAT CAUSED THEM TO CHANGE THEIR
MIND?
>> TALKING TO BOTH EUROPEANS AND
WESTERN OFFICIALS, IT'S A SHIFT
OF ATTITUDE OF DEEP ARRANGE
ABOUT THE DOWNING OF THE PLANE
AND THE RUSSIAN'S REACTION TO IT
WHICH IS, AS THE PRESIDENT SAID,
THEY'RE STEPPING BACK ON WHAT
THEY'RE DOING IN UKRAINE.
AND MOSTLY EUROPEAN VICTIMS,
SEEING THE BODIES LEFT LYING ON
THE FIELD, PEOPLE RIFLING
THROUGH THEIR POSSESSIONS.
IT REALLY CHANGED PUBLIC
ATTITUDES.
KEY TO THIS WAS GERMAN
CHANCELLOR ANJCHANCELLOR WHO WAG
AND SAID WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
HAVE SANCTIONS.
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE MONTH, THEY
SAID TO PUTIN, UNLESS YOU STOP
SHIFTING MEN AND MATERIAL AND
WEAPONS ACROSS THE BORDER, WE'RE
GOING TO DO.
THIS WELL, HE DIDN'T AND, SO,
THEY DID.
SO KIEV, THE LEADERS OF
UKRAINE'S GOVERNMENT, THEY'RE
NOW WATCHING THE
NEIGHBORS DO THIS.
WHAT'S THE REACTION?
>> WELL, PUBLICLY, UKRAINIAN
FOREIGN MINISTER WAS HERE TODAY
AND SAID THIS WAS TERRIFIC.
BUT I TALKED TO A WELL-PLACED
OFFICIAL IN GOVERNMENT IN KIEV
LATE THIS AFTERNOON AND HE SAID,
WELL, YOU KNOW, IT'S GOOD, BUT,
HE SAID, SOMETIMES IN AN ILLNESS
THE MEDICINE DEPENDS ON BEING
ADMINISTERED AT THE RIGHT STAGE.
IF THIS WAS DONE IN MAY, IT MAY
HAVE HELPED.
IT MAY PERSUADE THE RUSSIAN
ELITE THIS IS A DANGEROUS PATH
BUT MANY BELIEVE MR. PUTIN IS
ALREADY COMMITTED TO A
FULL-SCALE INVASION.
>> Woodruff: THERE HAS BEEN
TALK WHETHER  BE
PROVIDING LETHAL ASSISTANCE TO
UKRAINE.
>> THERE'S STILL A RELUCTANCE TO
PROVIDE LETHAL WEAPONS.
THE U.S. IS STILL RELUCTANT TO
PROVIDE MORE SOPHISTICATED
WEAPONRY.
WHAT HAPPENEDTO WHEN RUSSIA
PROVIDED WEAPONRY TO THE
SEPARATISTS.
WHAT THE UNITED STATES IS
WILLING TO DO IS DEEPER
INTELLIGENCE SHARING.
THE UKRAINIANS SAY WE REALLY
CAN'T KEEP OUR EYE ON WHERE THE
RUSSIAN FORCES AND THE
SEPARATISTS ARE DEPLOYED, THEY
NEED MORE HIGH RESOLUTION AND
REAL-TIME INTELLIGENCE AND
SENIOR DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE
OFFICIALS ARE IN KIEV NOW.
THE FEAR HAS BEEN THAT THE
INTELLIGENCE AND MILITARY IN
UKRAINE ARE TOO PENETRATED BY
RUSSIAN INTELLIGENCE AND
MILITARY, BUT I'M TOLD THAT THE
BELIEF IS THEY HAVE IDENTIFIED
AT LEAST A COUPLE OF UNITS AND
INDIVIDUALS THEY FEEL THEY CAN
TRUST.
>> Woodruff: NOW, SECOND THING
THAT HAPPENED TODAY, THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION ACCUSING RUSSIA
OF VIOLATING A NUCLEAR TREATY.
TELL US WHAT ARE THE RUSSIANS --
WHAT DO THEY BELIEVE THE
RUSSIANS HAVE DONE, WHEN DID
THEY DO IT AND HOY SERIOUS IS
IT?
>> THEY THINK IT'S VERY SERIOUS.
I TALKED TO ANOTHER TOP OFFICIAL
TODAY WHO HAS BEEN INVOLVED AND
SAID THEY CONSIDER IT A SERIOUS
VIOLATION.
T THEY'RE TALKING ABOUT SIMPLY
TEST AGO GROUND LAUNCH CRUISE
MISSILE BUT WITHIN THE
PROHIBITED RANGE OF 500 TO
5,000 KILOMETERS.
YOU RECALL THAT THE REASON THE
U.S. AND THEN SOVI UNION,
GORBACHEV AND REAGAN AGREEoodruO
THE '80s.
>> 1987 AND WAS NEGOTIATED
THROUGH THE '80s AND REALLY
PUT EUROPE IN THE CROSSHAIRS.
REMEMBER, AMERICA HAD
SHORT-RANGE MISSILES OVER THERE.
SO ALL THE STOCKPILES WERE
DESTROYED.
WHAT THE U.S. IS SAYING NOW IS
THAT FOR SEVERAL YEARS, IN FACT,
RUSSIA HAS BEEN TESTING A GROUND
LAUNCH CRUISE MISSILE.
>> Woodruff: AND THEY HAVE
PROOF.
ARE THEY SHARING THE PROOF?
>> WELL, SOMEBODY WITH N.A.T.O.,
THERE HAVE BEEN CONSULTATIONS.
THERE HAVE BEEN PEOPLE ON THE
HILL WHO HAVE ALREADY KNOWN
ABOUT THIS.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT KIND OF
EVIDENCE THEY HAVE DEMONSTRATED
BUT THEY HAVE BEEN TALKING TO
THE RUSSIANS ABOUT THIS.
NOW, THE RUSSIANS' ANSWER
APPARENTLY IS, WELL, YOU'RE
VIOLATING IT, TOO, BECAUSE THE
DUMMY MISSILES YOU USED TO TEST
YOUR ANTI-MISSILE SYSTEMS COULD
CONSTITUTE -- EVEN THOUGH
THEY'RE DUMMY MISSILES, THEY'RE
NOT ARMED BUT THEY'RE DUMMY
MISSILES, SO BASICALLY THEY
HAVEN'T ENGAGED AND THAT'S WHY
PRESIDENT OBAMA WROTE THIS
LETTER TO PRESIDENT PUTIN MONDAY
SAYING, YOU KNOW, SIT DOWN,
LET'S TALK ABOUT IT, LET'S NOT
MOVE TO THE NEXT STAGE OF
DEPLOYMENT.
>> Woodruff: BUT YOU CAN'T
IGNORE THE TIMING, COMES BETWEEN
HUGE TENSIONS BETWEEN THE U.S.
AND RUSSIA.
IS THERE ANY CONNECTION BETWEEN
THE TWO?
>> JUDY, I ASKED EVERYONE I
TALKED TO TODAY AND THEY SAID
HARD TO BELIEVE, THIS IS ON ITS
OWN TRACK.
THEY HAD A REPORT DUE ON THE
HILL TWO MONTHS OVERDUE CALLED
THE COMPLIANCE REPORT, ACTUALLY
CONCERNS 2013 AND FOR THE FIRST
TIME THE U.S. SAYS THEY REALLY
THAT DID GOODS.
I MEAN, IN THEIR VIEW, THEY
REALLY HAD DONE THE
INVESTIGATATORY WORK AND HAD TO
DECLARE IT.
IF IT HASN'T BEEN POSTED ON THE
WEB SITE YET IT WILL BE TODAY SO
THAT'S HOW IT BECAME PUBLIC.
>> Woodruff: GREAT REPORTING,
MARGARET.
THANKS.
>> Ifill: LET'S TURN TO SOME
CHANGES IN THE WAY COLLEGE
SPORTS PLANS TO DEAL WITH HEAD
INJURIES.
ALL PART OF A SIGNIFICANT
SETTLEMENT ANNOUNCED EARLIER
TODAY.
THE DEBATE OVER FOOTBALL-RELATED
HEAD CONCUSSIONS HAS FOCUSED
PRIMARILY AT THE PROFESSIONAL
LEVEL IN RECENT YEARS AS FORMER
PLAYERS SUED AND THEN SETTLED
WITH THE N.F.L OVER THEIR
INJURIES.
NOW COLLEGIATE-LEVEL PLAYERS ARE
ALSO HAVING THEIR DAY IN-- AND
OUT OF-- COURT AS THE N.C.A.A
AGREED TODAY TO SETTLE A NUMBER
OF CASES BROUGHT IN.
ACTION INJURY LAWSUIT.
LEAD PLAINTIFF ADRIAN ARRINGTON
SUFFERED FIVE CONCUSSIONS AS A
FOOTBALL PLAYER AT EASTERN
ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY.
HE SAID THE EFFECTS WERE SO
SEVERE HE SOMETIMES COULDN'T
RECOGNIZE HIS PARENTS.
THE PROPOSED SETTLEMENT-- WHICH
MUST STILL BE APPROVED BY A
FEDERAL JUDGE-- WOULD CREATE A
$70 MILLION FUND FOR CONCUSSION
TESTING AND DIAGNOSIS OF CURRENT
AND FORMER STUDENT ATHLETES.
$5 MILLION MORE WOULD GO TOWARD
CONCUSSION RESEARCH.
N.C.A.A MEMBER SCHOOLS WOULD BE
REQUIRED TO CHANGE THEIR
CONCUSSION MANAGEMENT POLICIES.
THE SETTLEMENT GOES BEYOND
FOOTBALL, TO INCLUDE ATHLETES
ENGAGED IN OTHER CONTACT SPORTS
INCLUDING: SOCCER, LACROSSE AND
ICE HOCKEY.
UNLIKE THE N.F.L SETTLEMENT,
THIS AGREEMENT ONE DOES NOT PAY
FOR MEDICAL EXPENSES.
RACHEL AXON IS AN INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTER FOR U.S.A TODAY SPORTS
COVERING THE N.C.A.A STORY.
SHE JOINS ME NOW.
RACHEL, HOW SIGNIFICANT IS THE
SETTLEMENT FOR COLLEGE SPORTS?
>> WELL, THIS IS CERTAINLY
BRINGING SOME CHANGES, ALTHOUGH
THERE ARE SOME CONCERN ABOUT
WHETHER THAT IS ENOUGH.
THE SETTLEMENT PROPOSAL IS
$70 MILLION FOR A MEDICAL
MONITORING CLASS, $5 MILLION FOR
RESEARCH AS WELL AS SOME CHANGES
TO NCAA GUIDELINES.
BUT RIGHT NOW THOSE WOULDN'T BE
RULES AND THERE ARE QUESTIONS
ABOUT WHAT WOULD HAPPEN AT
SCHOOLS IF THEY DIDN'T FOLLOW
THOSE, SO A STEP FORWARD IN THE
EYES OF SOME BUT DEFINITELY
QUESTIONED IN OTHER CORNERS.
>> Ifill: WE KNOW YOU'VE
TALKED TO AND INTERVIEWED ADRIAN
ERRINGTON WHO IS CENTRAL TO THE
CASE.
HIS CASE AND OTHERS EXPOSED
VULNERABILITIES IN THE NCAA
PLANS WHICH LED TO THE
SETTLEMENT.
>> THAT'S CORRECT, HE FILED FOR
CLASS ACTION A YEAR AGO IN JULY
AND INCLUDED E-MAILS THAT COULD
BE SEEN AS DAMAGING TO THE NCAA,
ACKNOWLEDGING THEY DIDN'T HAVE
GUIDELINES REGARDING
CONCUSSIONS, THE RULES ON THE
BOOKS ONLY REQUIRE SCHOOLS HAVE
CONCUSSION MANAGEMENT PLANS BUT
DON'T OUTLINE MUCH WITHIN THOSE.
SO ONCE THE CLASS ACTION
CERTIFICATION, THE MOTION WAS
FILED, WE SAW A RASH OF COPY CAT
LAWSUITS BECAUSE THEY SAW A
POTENTIAL THERE.
>> Ifill: YOU MENTIONED
GUIDELINES.
ARE THEY GUIDELINES OR
ENFORCEABLE RULES?
>> RIGHT NOW GUIDELINES.
IN THE SETTLEMENT IT SAYS THE
NCAA WILL PRESENT THIS TO THE
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND FOLLOW
THROUGH A NORMAL PROCESS BUT
THAT MEANS THE SCHOOLS MUST
APPROVE THESE AS RULES AND RIGHT
NOW THAT'S NOT THERE, IT'S ONE
OF THE ISSUES PEOPLE ARE HAVING
AT THE SETTLEMENT.
>> Ifill: ONE OF THE
GUIDELINES IN THE SETTLEMENT
EMPOWERS MEDICAL OFFICIALS TO
MAKE THE ASSESSMENT WHETHER A
PLAYER CAN RETURN TO THE FIELD
AND THAT IS NOT WHAT THE CASE
WAS BEFORE?
>> WELL, THIS IS SOMETHING
THEY'RE PUTTING IN WRITING.
THIS IS KIND OF A BEST PRACTICE.
THEY WERE A LITTLE BIT BEHIND
THE TIMES ON IT.
THEY HAVE BEEN INCIDENCES AND
NCAA SURVEYS FOUND AT SEVERAL
SCHOOLS PLAYERS WERE RETURNED TO
PLAY THE SAME DAY AS BEING
DIAGNOSED WITH CONCUSSION WHICH
WE KNOW FROM MEDICAL RESEARCH IS
WHERE A LOT OF THE DAMAGE CAN BE
DONE.
>> Ifill: WHAT HAPPENS IN
INDIVIDUAL LAWSUITS NOW?
>> THIS MEANS THERE WILL BE NO
CLASS ACTION SUIT FOR DAMAGES.
SO THE PLAYERS WILL NOT GET
MONEY AS A RESULT OF THIS FOR
LONG-TERM INJURIES THEY MAY HAVE
SUFFERED.
IT DOES PRESERVE THEIR RIGHT TO
PURSUE PERSONAL INJURY CLAIMS
INDIVIDUALLY AS WE KNOW THAT CAN
BE VERY DIFFICULT, AN
PROCESS AND MANY PLAYERS MIGHT
NOT BE ABLE TO DO IT FOR THAT
REASON.
>> Ifill: THERE ARE
1.5 MILLION ATHLETES AT COLLEGE
LEVEL, $70 MILLION IN
SETTLEMENT.
ANY IDEA HOW FAR THE ASSESSMENT
COULD GO?
>> THE PLAINTIFF SAID THEY HAD
AN ECONOMIC ANALYSIS DONE.
THEY EXPECT IT TO LAST THE
50-YEAR PERIOD.
THAT COULD BE AS LOW AS
$55 MILLION ONCE ATTORNEY'S FEES
ARE REMOVED.
BUT THAT'S THE QUESTION SOME OF
THE CRITICS OF THE SETTLEMENT
HAS AND WE SAW THAT WITH THE NFL
CONCUSSION SETTLEMENT WHERE THE
U.S. DISTRICT COURT JUDGE DID
NOT APPROVE IT BECAUSE SHE
DIDN'T THINK THE FUNDING WAS
THERE.
>> SO IF THE JUDGE APPROVES THIS
SETTLEMENT, WHAT DO SCHOOLS HAVE
TO DO?
WHAT DO THE MEMBER SCHOOLS HAVE
TO DO NEXT?
>> THERE ARE CERTAIN GUIDELINES
IN HERE THEY WOULD HAVE TO
FOLLOW BUT THE NCAA WOULD HAVE
TO TAKE THAT TO ITS MEMBERSHIP
AND HAVE A VOTE BEFORE IT COULD
BE CONSIDERED AS A RULE.
THEY SHOULD HAVE BASELINES IF
THEY'RE NOT DOING THAT,
EDUCATION FOR COACHES AND
FACULTY ABOUT ATHLETES THAT HAVE
CONCUSSIONS.
RIGHT NOW NOTHING IS A
REQUIREMENT.
IT'S STILL A GUIDELINE TILL THE
NCAA VOTES ON IT.
>> Ifill: PART OF THE
DISAGREEMENT ON THE CASES ALL
ALONG IS THAT THE NCAA DID NOT
CONCEDE IT HAD A LEGAL DUTY TO
PROTECT THESE ATHLETES.
DOES THAT CHANGE THAT?
>> I DON'T THINK IT CHANGES THAT
AND THE PLAINTIFFS IN THIS CASE
WOULD ARGUE THAT'S COMPLETELY
FALSE.
NCAA WAS CREATED OVER 100 YEARS
AGO IN RESPONSE TO A NUMBER OF
DEATHS IN FOOTBALL UNDER THREAT
OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
INTERVENING BECAUSE OF THAT, SO
THE PLAINTIFFS WOULD ARGUE THE
NCAA HAS ALWAYS HAD THAT
OBLIGATION, HAS SAID THAT
REPEATEDLY AND THIS DOES NOT
CHANGE THAT.
>> Ifill: IS THIS SOMETHING
FUTURE ATHLETES WILL BE AFFECTED
BY AS WELL AS CURRENT ONES?
>> THE MEDICAL MONITORING, NO.
THAT APPLIES TO CURRENT AND
FORMER ATHLETES.
THE HOPE WOULD BE THE GUIDELINES
IN PLACE AND RIEWRLS WOULD HELP
PREVENT CURRENT WHO ARE PLAYING
AND FUTURE ATHLETES FROM HAVING
THE LONG-TERM INJURIES WITH
CONSEQUENCES.
>> Ifill: RACHEL AXON FROM
U.S.A. TODAY.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: STUDENTS IN THE
U.S. OFTEN SPEND FAR LESS TIME
IN SCHOOL THAN THEIR
COUNTERPARTS IN OTHER
INDUSTRIALIZED COUNTRIES AND
IT'S BEEN THAT WAY FOR A LONG
TIME.
BUT NOW AS ACADEMIC EXPECTATIONS
ARE RISING, ONE IDEA FOR CLOSING
THE ACHIEVEMENT GAP THAT'S
GAINING MORE ATTENTION IS
EXTENDING THE SCHOOL DAY.
JOHN TULENKO OF LEARNING MATTERS
TELEVISION HAS OUR REPORT.
WHEN THE SCHOOL DAY ENDED IN
BRONX, NEW YORK, THE FUN BEGINS.
EACH DAY FROM 5:00 P.M.,
THE SCHOOL OFFERS ALL 6 GRADERS
A HEALTHY GOES OF
EXTRACURRICULARS.
AFRICAN DRUMMING, DANCE, CHESS,
TECHNOLOGY AND MORE.
>> I THINK EVERY STUDENT SHOULD
HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE AWE
THESE EXPERIENCES -- ALL THESE
EXPERIENCES AVAILABLE TO THEM.
>> THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE
NONPROFIT THAT RUNS THE EXTENDED
DAY PROGRAM AT MIDDLE SCHOOL 223
WHERE THE MAJORITY OF STUDENTS
QUALIFY AS LOW-INCOME.
SHE USED TO TEACH MATH HERE BUT
SAYS SHE RECOGNIZED THE NEED FOR
A PROGRAM LIKE THIS LONG BEFORE
THAT.
>> I CAME FROM A LOW-INCOME
FAMILY AND KNEW IF MY SCHOOL
WASN'T OFFERING IT, I WOULDN'T
BE GETTING IT, SO I WANTED TO
GIVE THE STUDENTS THE
EXPERIENCES I WISH I COULD HAVE
HAD.
>> THE AFTER-SCHOOL PROGRAM
ISN'T JUST FUN AND GAMES.
ABOUT HALF THE STUDENTS ARE ALS
GETTING PERSONALIZED HELP IN
READING A MAP.
>> DIFFERENT KIDS GET WHAT THEY
NEED.
IF A KID IS STRUGGLING TO NEED
MORE HELP IN MATH, THEY GET THE
HELP.
>> BUT IT'S THE FUN STUFF THAT
KIDS THE KIDS' ATTENTION.
PRINCIPAL RAMON GONZALEZ.
>> WE HAVE BEEN DOING THIS
INTENSIVE MODEL FOR SIXTH GRADE
FOR A YEAR.
>> WHAT'S THE EFFECT?
KIDS WANT TO SAY TILL
5:00 EVERY DAY AND THEY CAN HANG
OUT IN THE STREET IF THEY WANT.
THEY CHOOSE TO STAY HERE.
I THINK IT'S BECAUSE WE HAVE THE
DIFFERENT CHOICES THEY CAN MAKE
AND THEY FEEL LIKE THEY'RE
GETTING SMARTER.
>> INTEREST IN A LONGER SCHOOL
DAY IS GROWING.
ABOUT 1,000 SCHOOLS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY SHARE $1 BILLION IN
FEDERAL FUNDS EAR MARKED FOR
EXTENDED DAY PROGRAM.
THIS PROGRAM COST ABOUT $2,000
PER CHILD PER YEAR, ABOUT HALF
OF WHICH COMES FROM PRIVATE
DONATIONS.
IN THE YEAR IT'S BEEN RUNNING,
PRINCIPAL GONZALEZ SAYS SCHOOL
ATTENDANCE HAS INCREASED.
PROPONENTS HAD A LONG LIST OF
OTHER BENEFITS HE KIDS ARE
SAFE, THEY EXERCISE, THEY'RE
FIT, THEY'RE LEARNING VALUABLE
SOCIAL AND EMOTIONAL LESSONS,
AND THEY LIKE IT.
>> AFTER SCHOOL YOU WALK INTO A
CLASSROOM AND THE KIDS ARE
EXCITED ABWHAT THEY'RE DOING AND
IT'S 4:00 ON A FRIDAY AND
THEY'RE ALL RAISING THEIR HANDS,
THAT TO ME IS SUCCESS.
>> Reporter: LUCY IS PRESIDENT
OF THE AFTER-SCHOOL CORPORATION
WHICH PROVIDES GUIDANCE TO
SCHOOLS WHO WANT TO START
EXTENDED DAY PROGRAMS INCLUDING
MIDDLE SCHOOL 223.
THE STUDENTS HER STUDENTS SERVE
FACE MORE THAN AN ACHIEVEMENT.
IT'S SOMETHING YOU CALL THE
OPPORTUNITY GAP.
A ABOUT?
>> BY SIXTH GRADE, DISADVANTAGED
KIDS HAVE HAD 6,000 LESS HOURS
OF LEARNING, LEARNING, YOU KNOW,
WHAT HAPPENS IN PRESCHOOL BUT
ALSO WHAT HAPPENS WHEN FAMILIES
TAKE YOU TO THE BEACH OR THE
ZOO, SUMMER CAMPS, AFTER-SCHOOL
PROGRAMS, AND, SO, REALLY,
THAT'S WHAT WE WANT TO DO AND
OPEN KIDS' EYES, EXPOSE THEM TO
NEW KINDOF ACTIVITIES AND TO
NEW PARTS OF THEMSELVES.
>> Reporter: BUT AT MANY
PUBLIC SCHOOLS, CLOSING THE
OPPORTUNITY GAP IS A NEW
MISSION.
FOR MORE THAN A DECADE, SCHOOLS
HAVE BEEN CRAMMING ON ACADEMICS
IN AN EFFORT TO RAISE SCORES,
ESPECIALLY IN LOW-INCOME
SCHOOLS.
>> I THINK WHAT WE'VE SEEN IN
THE POOREST NEIGHBORHOOD, TSWHAE
TEST PREP ACADEMIES AND WE'VE
TAKEN OUT THE ARTS AND THE
SPORTS AND WITH THE IDEA THAT WE
JUST FOCUS ON ACADEMICS,
SOMEHOW, MIRACULOUSLY, THESE
KIDS WILL BE AT THE SAME LEVEL
IN THREE YEARS.
WE FOUND IT WORKED FOR SOME
KIDS, BUT THE MAJORITY OF KIDS
IT HAS NOT WORKED.
THE GAP STILL REMAINS.
>> Reporter: BUT EVEN HERE,
EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES CAN
FEEL LIKE AN AFTERTHOUGHT.
WHAT DO THEY GET IN THE WAY OF
ART, MUSIC, DANCE, DRAMA DURING
THE REGULAR SCHOOL DAY?
>> THERE ISN'T MUCH.
>> Reporter: MANY OF THIS
TEACHER'S STUDENTS FIND IT HARD
NOT TO DRIFT OFF IN A SCHEDULE
DOMINATED BY ACADEMICS.
>> THEY HAVE 40 PERIODS A WEEK
OF INSTRUCTION, FIVE LUNCH,
EIGHT FOR MATH, FIVE FOR
SCIENCE, FIVE TECHNOLOGY --
YOU'RE LEFT WITH TWO PERIODS FOR
GYM.
A LOT MAS TO DO WITH THE TEST
WE'RE REQUIRED TO PREPARE THE
STUDENTS FOR.
>> Reporter: EVEN WITH THE
FOCUS ON ACADEMICS, MATH AND
READING ARE BELOW MOST.
75% OF MIDDLE SCHOOL 223 SCORED
BELOW PROFIT.
THAT'S WHERE THE AFTER-SCHOOL
TUTORING COMES IN.
>> SO WHAT IS THE FORMULA?
>> Reporter: ARE THEY GETTING
BETTER AT MATH?
>> THEY ARE.
THEY'RE GETTING BETTER BECAUSE
THEY ATTITUD ATTITUDE IS CHANGI.
THEY'RE GETTING ANSWERS WHERE IN
A CLASS OF 30 OR AT HOME THEY
AREN'T NECESSARILY GETTING
ANSWERS.
>> Reporter: RESEARCH SHOWS
MOST AFTER-SCHOOL PROGRAMS HAVE
A POSITIVE EFFECT ON STUDENT
PERFORMANCE, BUT IS WAITING TILL
THE END OF THE DAY TO CATCH KIDS
UP AND GIVE THEM FUN ACTIVITIES
THEY LOOK FORWARD TO OVEKI
THE REAL
WE ASKED LUCY FREEDMAN OF THE
AFTER-SCHOOL CORPORATION.
I WANT TO PLAY AROUND AND GIVE
YOU AN ANALOGY.
>> OKAY.
>> Reporter: IMAGINE SCHOOLS
AS RESTAURANTS, THERE TO SERVE
NUTRITION.
THE WAY THEY DO IT NOW, ONLY
ABOUT HALF OF THE KIDS GET A
NUTRITIOUS MEAL. COME IN AT THEF
THE DAY AND PROVIDE THE
NUTRITION, WHICH IS IMPORTANT.
BUT SOME COULD ARGUE YOU REALLY
OUGHT TO BE MORE FOCUSED ON THE
MENU DURING THE REGULAR SCHOOL
DAY.
>> WHY AREN'T WE?
BECAUSE WE THINK THIS IS -- I
MEAN, PARTLY, IT'S WHO WE ARE,
RIGHT?
I MEAN, THERE ARE A LOT OF
PEOPLE PUTTING A LOT OF EFFORT
INTO IT.
>> I THINK WITH THE INGREDIENTS
WE HAVE, WE ARE WORKING ON
SERVING THE BEST MEAL.
BUT EVEN AS WE'RE CRAFTING THIS
MENU OF THESE GREAT THINGS,
STILL NOT ENOUGH BECAUSE OUR
KIDS HAVE NOT EATEN FOR YEARS
AND, SO, WE'RE TRYING TO MAKE UP
SOME OF THE NUTRIENTS THEY'VE
LOST ALONG THE WAY.
>> Reporter: WITH THE FOCUS ON
TESTS, IT'S UNLIKELY THE MENU
FOR THE REGULAR SCHOOL DAY WILL
CHANGE, BUT THE DESSERT WILL GET
RICHER.
NEW YORK STATE RECENTLY HANDED
OVER $7.6 MILLION TO CREATE MORE
AFTER-SCHOOL PROGRAMS LIKE THE
ONE AT MIDDLE SCHOOL 223, THAT'S
ON TOP OF 145 MILLION ALREADY
PLEDGED BY NEW YORK CITY MAYOR
BILL DEBLASIO.
>> Ifill: THE RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN GOVERNMENT AND
INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISTS HAS
OFTEN BEEN FRAUGHT: ONE WANTING
TO HOLD ONTO CLASSIFIED
INTELLIGENCE, THE OTHER SEEKING
TO PRY OPEN SECRETS, EACH
BELIEVING IT'S SERVING THE
PUBLIC INTEREST.
BUT A NEW REPORT MAKES THE CLAIM
THAT IN THE POST 9/11 ERA, THE
GOVERNMENT HAS GONE TOO FAR IN
CLAMPING DOWN ON THE WORK OF
REPORTERS AND THEIR SOURCES.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR LOOK.
>> Brown: THE REPORT COMES FROM
THE ADVOCACY GROUPS, "HUMAN
RIGHTS WATCH" AND THE "A.C.L.U"
AND IS TITLED: "WITH LIBERTY TO
MONITOR ALL: HOW LARGE-SCALE
U.S. SURVEILLANCE IS HARMING
JOURNALISM, LAW, AND AMERICAN
DEMOCRACY."
IT WAS PRODUCED AFTER TALKING
WITH DOZENS OF PUBLIC OFFICIALS,
LAWYERS, AND, MOST OF ALL,
JOURNALISTS.
ONE OF THE LATTER IS WITH US
NOW: DANA PRIEST, AN
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTER FOR THE
"WASHINGTON POST" AND A
PROFESSOR AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
MARYLAND.
WITH ANOTHER VIEW OF THE
SITUATION, WE'RE JOINED BY
STEWART BAKER, FORMER ASSISTANT
SECRETARY AT THE DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY IN THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION.
HE'S ALSO A FORMER GENERAL
COUNSEL AT THE N.S.A IN THE
1990S.
WELCOME TO BOTH OF YOU.
DANA PRIEST FIRST, IN GENERAL
TERMS, STATE THE PROBLEM SO
PEOPLE UNDERSTAND THAT, FOR
SOMEONE LIKE YOURSELF IN DOING
THIS KIND OF REPORTING.
>> WELL, THE REPORT FOCUSES ON A
TREND THAT YOU CAN'T ESCAPE.
ONE IS ALL THE INFORMATION
THAT'S COME OUT ON SURVEILLANCE
AND WHAT IS THE IMPACT THAT --
ON A REPORTER'S ABILITY TO DO
THEIR JOB, IN OTHER WORDS TO
CULTIVATE AND GUARD CONFIDENTIAL
SOURCES USUALLY WITHIN THE
GOVERNMENT WHO DON'T WANT TO BE
NAMED?
NEXT TO THAT, IS THERE A RECORD
NUMBER OF PROSECUTIONS OR
REPORTERS BY THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION FOR THEIR
INVOLVEMENT IN WRITING STORIES?
AND THIRD WOULD BE JUST
INCREASING IN WHAT THEY PERCEIVE
AS LEAKS FROM THESE LARGE CACHES
OF INFORMATION, THE WIKILEAKS
THAT CAME A COUPLE OF YEARS AGO
AND THEN EDWARD SNOWDEN'S
DOCUMENTS THAT HE RELEASED TO A
COUPLE OF JOURNALISTS, SO THAT
TOGETHER HAS MADE THE GOVERNMENT
VERY FEARFUL, IT HAS INSTITUTED
AN INSIDER THREAT PROGRAM THAT
IS VERY RESTRICTIVE THAT ASKS
PEOPLE TO NOT TO TALK TO
REPORTERS, NOT EVEN IF THEY'RE
NOT DISCUSSING UNCLASSIFIED
INFORMATION UNLESS IT'S OKAYED
IN SORTED OF A CENTRALIZED WAY,
AND WHAT IMPACT HAS THAT HAD ON
REPORTING?
NO SURPRISE BUT IT'S HAD A BIG
CHILL ON NATIONAL SECURITY
REPORTING.
>> Brown: STEWART BAKER, YOU
HAD A LOOK AT THIS, TOO.
DO YOU SEE A LARGE-SCALE
PROBLEM?
>> I THINK THERE'S A COMPLETE
DISCONNECT BETWEEN WHAT THEY
BLAME FOR THE PROBLEM WHICH IS
THE TRENDY DISCUSSIONS OF
NATIONAL SECURITY SURVEILLANCE
AND THE OBSERVATION THAT IT IS
EASIER TO FIND THE PEOPLE WHO
ARE LEAKING, IN MOST CASES.
THOSE TWO THINGS ARE NOT
CONNECTED AT ALL IN THE REPORT
AND PROBABLY NOT IN REALITY.
THERE ARE ALMOST NO LEAKS -- IN
FACT, NO LEAKS I'VE SEEN WHERE
THE LEAKER WAS IDENTIFIED BY THE
215 PROGRAM WE'VE HEARD SO MUCH
ABOUT OR OVERSEAS CORRECTION
OF --
>> Brown: THESE
SURVEILLANCE PROGRAMS.
>> WHAT'S GOING ON AND WHAT IS
MAKING IT EASIER TO MAKE THESE
CASEs WE ARE SURROUND BID MORE
DIGITAL INFORMATION AND WE ARE
DROPPING THOSE DIGITS EVERYWHERE
SO WHEN INVESTIGATORS SEE
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION IN THE
NEWSPAPER, WHEN THEY'RE TRYING
TO FIGURE OUT WHO LEAKED, IT'S
EASY TO FIGURE OUT BY SOCIAL
CONNECTIONS, WHO SPOKE TO WHOM,
WHO SENT EMAIL TO WHOM AND TO
START BY NARROWING THE CIRCLE
UNTIL YOU'RE PRETTY SURE YOU
KNOW WHO DID IT.
>> Brown: CAN YOU GIVE US A
SPECIFIC CONNECTION HE'S NOT
SEEN BETWEEN THE SURVEILLANCE
PROGRAM AND THE IMPACT ON --
>> YEAH, I DON'T THINK THEY'RE
TRYING TO MAKE THE SECTIONS
BETWEEN THE PROSECUTION,
NECESSARILY BUT BETWEEN THE
POSSIBLE SURVEILLANCE AND THE
ABILITY OF THE MEDIA TO DO ITS
TRADITIONAL WATCHDOG ROLE IN THE
NATIONAL SECURITY ARENA.
IN THAT REGARD, WHEN YOU LOOK AT
THE INFORMATION REVEALED FROM
THE SNOWDEN DOCUMENTS, IT'S
CLEAR THEIR CAPABILITIES ARE
ENDLESS AND THAT THEY WORK IN
THE DOMESTIC REALM AS WELL, AND
THAT HAS NOT ONLY MEANT THAT
REPORTERS FEEL THAT THEY'RE
POTENTIALLY MORE TARGETED AND
SOME ABSOLUTELY DO FEEL, YOU
WILL FIND A RANGE ON THAT, BUT
ALSO MORE IMPORTANTLY THE
SOURCES WORRY ABOUT THAT.
>> Brown: THEY SAY THAT TO
YOU --
>> OH, YES.
ALL THE REPORTERS THEY TALK TO
WHICH I THINK ARE 46 NATIONAL
SECURITY REPORTERS ALL
EXPERIENCED PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN
DOING THIS FOR YEARS AND ALL SAY
IT IS WORSE THAN IT HAS EVER
BEEN, INCLUDING AFTER 9/11 WHEN
THIS REALLY STARTED IN EARNEST
DURING THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION,
AND ONE OF THE REASONS IS THIS
DEFENSIVE CROUCH, YOU CALL IT,
BUT THE ADMINISTRATION TO GET A
HANDLE, AS YOU WERE SAYING, ON
THE DIGITAL INFORMATION THAT IS
OUT THERE THAT USED TO NOT BE
OUT THERE AND THE VULNERABILITY
IN THEIR OWN SYSTEM WHICH THEY
HAVE NOT CORRECTED, AND I THINK
THIS IN A WAY IS SWATTING THE
FLY WITH THE HAMMER OR GOING
AFTER THE WRONG TARGET.
I THINK THEY NEED TO LOOK AT --
INSIDER IS SERIOUS, WE DON'T
WANT TO DAMAGE NATIONAL SECURITY
IN WHATEVER WE DO, BUT HOW ARE
YOU MOST EFFECTIVE?
IT IS REALLY TO MAKE IT
DIFFICULT FOR US TO HAVE
EXCHANGES WITH LEGITIMATE
SOURCES ON EVEN UNCLASSIFIED
INFORMATION?
>> Brown: WELL, THAT SOUNDS
LIKE A VAGUE SENSE OF
DISCONNECTION.
>> WELL, IT IS NOT THE CASE THAT
ANY OF THESE SURVEILLANCE
PROGRAMS WERE USED TO FIND THE
LEAKERS, AND I DON'T THINK YOU
DISAGREE.
WHAT YOU'RE SAYING THE PEOPLE
ARE AFRAID OF THE PROGRAMS, AND
THAT HAS MADE THEM LESS WILLING
TO TALK TO ME.
YET I THINK PART OF THAT IS THE
PRESS WHICH HAS HYPED THESE
STORIES BY SAYING IS N.S.A.
SPYING ON YOU THIS MORNING OR
THIS AFTERNOON, WHEN N.S.A. IS,
IN FACT, NOT SPYING ON AMERICANS
AS A ROUTINE MATTER AT ALL.
AND, SO, TO THE EXTENT THAT THE
PRESS HAS SCARED PEOPLE ABOUT
THESE PROGRAMS, THEY ARE REAPING
WHAT THEY SOWED.
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY, I THINK
PEOPLE HAVE WOKEN UP TO THE FACT
IF THEY TALK TO REPORTERS AND
RELEASE CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
THEY RISK HAVE THE FACT THEY ARE
THE SOURCE OF THE LEAK FOUND BY
ORDINARY CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIVE
MEANS.
IT IS NOT SUPER SPOOKY STUFF
THAT IS CATCHING THESE GUYS AND
IF THE COMPLAINT IS THEY DIDN'T
USED TO KNOW THAT AND THEY
TALKED TO ME AND NOW THEY KNOW
IT AND THEY TALK TO ME, I THINK
IT'S JUST A MATTER OF WHAT
REPORTERS ARE GETTING AWAY WITH
IN --
>> Brown: THAT WOULD BE THE
COUNTER ARGUMENT TO REPORTERS IS
YOU'RE GETTING PEOPLE TO IN SOME
WAYS BREAK THE LAW IF IT MEANS
GIVING YOU CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION.
>> THIS IS NOT AT ALL NEW.
IF YOU LOOK BACK THROUGH THE
COLD WAR, ALL THE FAILURES AND
THE VULNERABILITIES OF THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT HAVE BEEN OUT BY THE
MEDIA AND THAT'S WHAT WE SEE
PART OF OUR MOST IMPORTANT ROLE
BEING, YOU KNOW, POLICY
FAILURES, FAILURE OF THE
GOVERNMENT TO DO WHAT IT SAYS
IT'S GOING TO DO INCLUDING
REINING ITSELF IN WHEN IT COMES
TO INTELLIGENCE WORK AND
PARTICULARLY IN THE DOMESTIC
ARENA.
SO THIS IDEA THAT WE'RE DUPING
PEOPLE OR, YOU KNOW, TRICKING
THEM, WE'RE DOING OUR JOB, AND
THE PEOPLE INSIDE GOVERNMENT,
THEY KNOW THAT, AND WHAT IS
DIFFERENT NOW IS THIS
ADMINISTRATION IS MORE
DEFENSIVE, IT IS MORE
CONTROLLING OF HOW IT WANTS
INFORMATION TO BE LET OUT IN AN
UNPRECEDENTED WAY.
>> OH, THAT COULD BE SAID ABOUT
EVERY PRESIDENT SINCE NIXON.
>> IN THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION,
WE ALL THOUGHT WE MIGHT BE
ATTACKED AGAIN.
BUT THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION IS
REQUIRING VERY FRUGAL
EXPLANATIONS THAT REPORTERS ARE
ASKING FOR TO BE VETTED ALL THE
WAY UP TO A CENTRAL WHITE HOUSE
PRESS OFFICE WHICH IS CRAZY.
IT SLOWS IT DOWN, MAKES IT ALL
ABOUT TALKING POINTS AND THAT
FORCES REPORTERS TO WORK HARDER
TO GO AROUND ANY KIND OF
APPARATUS THAT MIGHT ACTUALLY
CHOOSE TO BE HELPFUL TO
REPORTERS.
>> Brown: YOU DON'T SEE A
MOVEMENT TOWARDS MORE CONTROL OF
INFORMATION AND NATIONAL
SECURITY?
>> IT IS AN UNDERSTANDABLE GOAL
THAT YOU'RE TRYING TO PROTECT
NATIONAL SECURITY NOT TO HAVE
DECISIONS ABOUT WHAT SECRETS
SHOULD BE KEPT IN THE HANDS OF
REPORTERS WHO HAVE A STRONG
INTEREST IN DISCLOSING EVEN
NATIONAL SECURITY SECRETS.
SO, YES, OF COURSE, THE
GOVERNMENT HAS ALWAYS WANTED TO
KEEP CLASSIFIED INFORMATION OUT
OF THE HANDS OF REPORTERS.
THEY'RE NOW USING TOOLS THAT
HAVE BEEN USED IN ORGANIZED
CRIME INVESTIGATIONS FOR 30
YEARS TO FIND INFORMATION ABOUT
WHO'S TALKING TO WHOM.
AND THAT HAS TURNED OUT TO BE A
VERY PRODUCTIVE WAY OF NOT GOING
AFTER JOURNALISTS BUT GOING
AFTER THE SOURCES WHO ARE
VIOLATING THEIR OATH.
>> Brown: GIVE ME A BRIEF
SENSE OF HOW IT'S CHANGED YOUR
LIFE.
WHAT KINDS OF THINGS DO YOU DO
DIFFERENTLY?
>> WELL, THIS IS THE TRICKY
PARTS OF THE METHODS.
WE ALL HAVE THEM, BUT IN ESSENCE
IT'S SLOWED THINGS DOWN.
WE HAVE TO BE MORE CIRCUITOUS,
WE HAVE TO USE THE TECH KNOLL WE
HAVE, ENCRYPTION AND AIR GAP
TECHNOLOGY ON THE COMPUTERS AND
IT SLOWS IT DOWN, NOT ONLY IN
NATIONAL SECURITY BUT POLICY
DISCUSSIONS.
>> Brown: I'M AFRAID WE'LL
HAVE TO LEAVE IT THERE.
DANA PRIEST AND STEWART BAKER,
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> IT'S A PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: NOW, TO A
BIPARTISAN EFFORT ON CAPITOL
HILL TO TRY TO REFORM THE
NATION'S CRIMINAL JUSTICE
SYSTEM.
TWO FRESHMAN SENATORS, A
POLITICAL ODD COUPLE, DEMOCRAT
CORY BOOKER OF NEW JERSEY AND
REPUBLICAN RAND PAUL OF
KENTUCKY, HAVE INTRODUCED
LEGISLATION CALLED THE "REDEEM
ACT" THAT WOULD: MAKE IT EASIER
FOR JUVENILES WHO COMMIT NON-
VIOLENT CRIMES TO EXPUNGE OR
SEAL THOSE CONVICTIONS FROM
THEIR RECORDS, LIFT THE FEDERAL
BAN ON FOOD STAMPS AND WELFARE
BENEFITS FOR LOW-LEVEL DRUG
OFFENDERS, OFFER INCENTIVES TO
STATES THAT CURRENTLY TRY
JUVENILES AS ADULTS TO ENCOURAGE
THEM TO RAISE THE AGE TO 18, BAN
SOLITARY CONFINEMENT FOR
CHILDREN EXCEPT IN THE MOST
DANGEROUS CASES.
SENATORS PAUL AND BOOKER JOIN ME
NOW.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH TO THE
"NewsHour".
SENATOR BOOKER, WHAT IS IT YOU
MOST WANT TO CHANGE ABOUT THE
CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM?
>> OVERALL, WE HAVE A SYSTEM
THAT COSTS TAXPAYERS A QUARTER
TRILLION DOLLARS A YEAR, 25% OF
THE PRISON POPULATION IS IN
LOCKUP.
WE NEED A CRIMINAL JUSTICE
SYSTEM TO SAVE TAXPAYER DOLLARS,
POWER TO SUCCEED AND KEEP
STREETS SAFE.
I'VE SEEN HOW A BROKEN CRIMINAL
JUSTICE SYSTEM ADDS TO
CRIMINALITY BY MAKING PEOPLE WHO
OTHER WISE WANT TO DO THE RIGHT
THING TO NOT HAVE A CHANCE TO
REDEEM THEMSELVES IN SOCIETY.
THIS IS A LARGE STRETCH.
I JOIN SENATOR PAUL AND OTHERS
WHO ARE DOING A LOT OF THINGS TO
TRY TO CHANGE THIS SYSTEM, I AM
HAPPY TO JOIN THIS EFFORT FOR A
NEED IN AMERICA.
>> Woodruff: SENATOR PAUL, YOU
COME FROM A DIFFERENT WORLD VIEW
AS SENATOR BOOKER BUT YOU SEE IT
HIS WAY?
>> I THINK IT'S NOT A RIGHT OR
LEFT ISSUE BUT ONE WE BOTH
BELIEVE STRONGLY IN.
IT'S ONE OF THE CHIEF
IMPEDIMENTS TO EMPLOYMENT.
PEOPLE CAN'T GET A JOB BECAUSE
THEY HAVE TO CHECK THE BOX
SAYING THEY'RE A FELON.
5 MILLION PEOPLE HAVE LOST THE
RIGHT TO VOTE AND ARE OUT OF
JAIL HAVING BEEN CONVICTED OF
FELONIES, AND IT'S DENYING THEM
THE OPPORTUNITY TO GET A JOB.
I WANT PEOPLE TO GET BACK TO
WORK AND VOTING AND THIS IS
WRAPPED UP IN WHAT PEOPLE IN
BOTH PARTIES BELIEVE?
>> Woodruff: SENATOR BOOKER,
HOW DO YOU ANSWER THE ARGUMENT
FROM CONSERVATIVES THAT THIS
SHOULD BE HANDLED AT THE STATE
LEVEL AND NOT THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT?
>> WE HAVE FEDERAL LAWS WE HAVE
TO REFORM AND IT'S A FEDERAL
PRISON POPULATION AS WELL AS
STATE THAT'S MUSHROOMING.
THE OVERWHELMING NUMBER OF
PRISONERS IN THE UNITED STATES
HAS GONE UP TEN FOLD SINCE 1980
ALONE.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING WE HAVE TO
DO AT EVERY LEVEL OF GOVERNMENT.
IN A LOT OF AREAS, WE DEAL WITH
PULLING THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
BACK IN TERMS OF THE ENFORCEMENT
OF MARIJUANA LAWS IN TERMS OF
MEDICAL MARIJUANA.
THIS IS SOMETHING WE HAVE TO
WORK ON.
IN TERMS OF FEDERAL GOVERNMENT,
THIS GROSS WASTE OF BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS ON NON-VIOLENT DRUG
OFFENDERS.
REMEMBER, THE MAJORITY OF THE
CRIMINALS WE LOCK UP ARE
NON-VIOLENT OFFENDERS AND YOU'VE
GOT TO FIGURE OUT WAYS TO
EMPOWER THEM TO SUCCEED.
A LOT OF STATES GIVE THEM CREDIT
AND ARE MEETING THE WAY AND
LOWERING PRISON POPULATIONS AT
THE SAME TIME AS LOWERING CRIME.
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT HAS TO
LEAD, HAS TO FOLLOW SUIT.
>> Woodruff: BASED ON WHAT I'M
READING, THIS IS NOT GIVEN A
SERIOUS CHANCE OF PASSAGE THIS
YEAR.
WHAT ARGUMENT ARE YOU MAKING TO
YOUR COLLEAGUES?
YOU KNOW, I GATHER ESPECIALLY
REPUBLICANS ARE NOT EXACTLY
EXCITED ABOUT THIS.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I THINK THERE
IS A CHANCE IT COULD PASS.
I HAVE BEEN TALKING WITH NOT
ONLY SENATOR REED BUT CENTER
LAHEY AND I ARE TOGETHER ON A
BILL AND WE SEE THE SMALLER
SENTENCING ABOUT WHICH REDUCES
MAPPED TORE MINIMUMS, GIVE
JUDGES MORE DISCRETION IN THESE
CASES AS A BASE BILL THAT MAYBE
SENATOR BOOKER AND I ON A BILL
COULD BE ATTACHED AS AN
AMENDMENT BUT I THINK THERE ARE
60, 70 VOTES IN THE SENATE ON
THIS ON BOTH SIDES OF THE AISLE.
THERE ARE STILL SOME NAYSAYERS
BUT I THINK THE PUBLIC AT LARGE
IS SAYING WE'RE NOT SO SURE
DRUGS ARE RIGHT FOR PEOPLE BUT
WE ARE THINKING MAYBE WE SHOULD
REHABILITATE PEOPLE, THAT
PEOPLE, PARTICULARLY KIDS,
DESERVEONANCES.
WHEN THEY MAKE MISTAKES, LET'S
GET THEM BACK INTO SOCIETY AND
WORKING WHICH MAKES THEM LESS
LIKELY TO GET BACK INTO DRUGS.
>> Woodruff: SENATOR PAUL, YOU
CAMPAIGNED FOR SENATOR BOOKER'S
OPPONENT WHEN HE RAN.
>> WE HOPE HE FORGETS THAT.
>> Woodruff: SO WAS IT
DIFFICULT FOR THE TWO OF YOU TO
INITIATE CONVERSATIONS ABOUT
THIS?
>> FROM MY POINT OF VIEW, NO.
I LOOK AT CAMPAIGNS DIFFERENTLY.
I MAY WELL CAMPAIGN FOR A
REPUBLICAN AGAIN IN NEW JERSEY.
WHEN WE'RE UP HERE, WE'RE
ELECTED OFFICIALS AND I TRY TO
BE CIVIL AND AT PEACE WITH ALL.
WE HAVE A LOT OF SIMILAR AREAS.
THIS ISNOTTING THE
DIFFERENCE ON AN ISSUE, IT'S
ACTUALLY WE BOTH DO AGREE ON
THIS AND THERE ARE SOME WE WON'T
AGREE ON AND WE'LL BE POLITE AND
VOTE THE OTHER WAY.
AT LEAST THAT'S THE WAY I SEE
IT.
>> Woodruff: SENATOR BOOKER, I
GUESS THIS IS THE SECOND DAY IN
A ROW WE HAVE BEEN TALKING WITH
TWO SENATORS FROM ACROSS THE
AISLE WORKING FOR FUNDING FOR
VETERANS HEALTHCARE, IS THIS
SOMETHING THAT HELPS YOU TO BE
WORKING WITH SENATORS ON THE
OTHER SIDE IN THE OTHER PARTY?
>> THIS IS WHAT I PROMISED
NEW JERSEY VOTERS I WOULD DO.
WE'RE TIRED OF WASHINGTON WHO
HAS THE PARTISAN CAMPS WHERE
NOTHING GETS DONE.
ONE OF THE MAIN PURPOSES I HAD
COMING DOWN HERE WAS TO SOLVE
NEW JERSEY PROBLEMS, NOT IN A
DEMOCRATIC CAMP, BY REACHING OUT
CREATING COMMON COALITIONS
NECESSARY TO SOLVE COMPLICATED
PROBLEMS -- IMMIGRATION REFORM,
DRUG POLICY REFORM, SUPPORTING
THE VETERANS, CORPORATE TAX
REFORM.
WE WILL BE SOLVING THEM THE
AMERICAN WAY, BY THE PEOPLE
EELECT COMING TOGETHER, FINDING
COMPROMISE AND MOVING OUR NATION
FORWARD.
>> Woodruff: SENATOR PAUL,
YOUR NAME VERY MUCH OUT THERE, A
POTENTIAL CANDIDATE IN 2016,
AGAIN, IS THIS SOMETHING, WHEN
YOU WORK WITH SENATORS FROM THE
OTHER SIDE OF THE AISLE IN THE
SENATE, IS THAT SEEN AS HELPING
YOU IN IOWA AND NEW HAMPSHIRE?
>> I THINK IT HELPS BOTH
PARTIES.
CONGRESS IN GENERAL HAS ABOUT A
10% APPROVAL RATING, SO ANYTIME
WE WORK TOGETHER, IT DOES HELP
BOTH PARTIES.
BUT I DON'T DO IT SIMPLY BECAUSE
I THINK IT WILL HELP ME OR
SENATOR BOOKER.
I PASSIONATELY BELIEVE IN THIS.
I THINK THE WAR ON DRUGS HAS A
RACIAL OUTCOME AND WE HAVE TO
FIX THAT AS WELL.
THERE'S A HOST OF ISSUES.
I'VE INTRODUCED FIVE CRIMINAL
JUSTICE ISSUES IN THE LAST FEW
MONTHS.
IS IT GOOD POLITICALLY?
YEAH, OBVIOUSLY, AS A POLITICIAN
I LIKE TO GET VOTES, BUT IT'S
ALSO THE RIGHT THING TO DO AND
THAT THE THE THING THAT
MOTIVATES ME.
>> Woodruff: THE TWO OF YOU
WORKED ON AT LEAST ONE OTHER
PIECE OF LEGISLATION LAST YEAR
AND THAT WAS TO PREVENT THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT FROM SPENDING
MONEY TO INTERFERE WITH STATE
MARIJUANA LAWS.
ARE THERE OTHER ISSUES WHERE THE
TWO OF YOU ARE WORKING TOGETHER
OR IN AGREEMENT?
>> THERE ARE A LOT OF THINGS WE
HAVE BEEN DISCUSSING FROM THE
DISPARITY BETWEEN CRACK AND
POWDER COCAINE, MAKING THAT ONE
TO ONE.ERE'S AREAS WITHIN THE PY
REFORM.
SO THE GREAT THING ABOUT SENATOR
PAUL AND OUR CONVERSATIONS, AND
HE CAME UP TO ME LITERALLY
MOMENTS AFTER I WAS SWORN IN, IS
THERE IS A LARK REG ANYTHING
THAT HE AND I HAVE THAT CRIMINAL
JUSTICE IS COSTING TAXPAYERS TOO
MUCH MONEY.
I WANT TO ADD CREDENCE TO WHAT
HE'S SAYING.
DEMOCRATS, PAUL RYAN, WHETHER
YOU AGREE WITH WHAT HE'S SAYING,
HE'S TALKING ABOUT POVERTY, YOU
HEARD RAND PAUL TALKING ABOUT
RACIAL DISPARITY.
WE HAVE MORE AFRICAN-AMERICANS
UNDER CRIMINAL SUPERVISION THAN
EVER.
THIS SHOULD WEIGH UPON YOUR
CONSCIENCES, WE NEED THE TRUTH
OF WHO WE ARE AS AMERICANS AND
WE NEED TO ADDRESS IT.
RAND PAUL AND I HAVE
DISAGREEMENTS BUT WE FIND COMMON
GROUND AND HAVE COMMON SENSE TO
SAY IF WE AGREE, LET'S JOIN
HANDS WITH OUR COLLEAGUES.
>> odruff: SENATORS, THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
THE U.S. AND EUROPE SLAPPED
RUSSIA WITH THE TOUGHEST
ECONOMIC SANCTIONS YET FOR ITS
SUPPORT OF SEPARATIST REBELS IN
EASTERN UKRAINE.
THEY TARGET RUSSIAN ENERGY,
WEAPONS AND FINANCE INDUSTRIES.
AND ISRAEL WIDENED THE SCOPE OF
ITS MILITARY BARRAGE AGAINST
HAMAS IN GAZA, KILLING AT LEAST
100 PALESTINIANS.
HAMAS INSISTED IT WON'T STOP
FIRING ROCKETS INTO ISRAEL UNTIL
IT GETS AN INTERNATIONAL
GUARANTEE THE BORDER BLOCKADE
WILL END.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, NEW LEGISLATION TO
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.